From Hansel minutes.com. It's Hansel
minutes. Oh, weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist and
Scott Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number one 88.
Recorded live Thursday, November 12th, 2009. Support
for Hanselman it's just provided
by Tellerik Rab controls, the
most comprehensive suite of components
for windows forms and asp.net
web applications online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this
episode, Scott talks with Phil
hat. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman, and this is another
episode of Hansel minutes. And
you'll have to forgive us
on this episode because a
there's a house going up
next to my house. So
if you're hammering in the
background, that's because there's hammering
in the background and it
turns out that's not something
you can easily remove from
an audio tape. I'm sitting
down today with Phil hack.
How's it going, Phil? So
something announced at PDC this
morning. What's a, what's the
big announcement That we had
the release of asp.net, NBC
version two beta available for
download. Very cool. So this
is, this is beta. And
will there be another beta
or many, many betas or
TTPs and things like that
before release, or is this
a pretty significant release from
NBC too? This is a
pretty significant release in that
this is mostly feature complete.
As far as large feature
areas. We have some bug
fixes we plan to do
and maybe minor DTRS or
design change requests, like minor
changes, design, you know, really
tiny features, but for the
most part, the big features
we want to do completely
done, and we're not taking
on any new, big features
and the next release after
this is going to be
a release candidate. And then
after that is our TM.
Okay, well, so you're pretty
close then at this point,
it's just one more release
and then, and then it's
done. Yeah. Part of the
reason for that is that
we are shipping co shipping
within visual studio 2010. So
we have this, this is
a very hard deadline, so
there's no, if, if we
flip, we're not in the
product. Oh, wow. So, so
visual studio, 2010 is coming
out where they say March 22nd.
I believe so. Yeah, it's
on the interwebs. Okay. So
yeah, that's will be in
there. Okay. Okay. So sometime
between today and March 22nd, there'll
be a release candidate and
then you're, you're shipping that
day then. Very cool. Yep.
Yeah. Obviously we, since we
have to meet whatever quality
Gates and all this, you
know, process to get into
the product, so we'll actually
be done much before March 22nd.
So what's the focus of
version two. So version two,
the primary focus is on
looking at the enterprise and
productivity scenarios. So version two
has a lot of cool
stuff. Like a template is
helpers. This is a feature
where you can pass a
model into a, a display
method or an editor method,
and we'll find the appropriate
template to render that model
object. And w you know,
we'll render either an editor
for it, like a bunch
of inputs, or we'll render
a nice display for it
for you. And it's very
reminiscent of field templates and
dynamic data. Well, that's, that's
interesting because I was talking
to Scott Hunter on an episode
of channel nine, and he
was kind of commenting that
initially there was this kind
of big pillars of asp.net
thing. And there was like
web forums as a pillar
and MVC, and then dynamic
data was its own thing.
When in fact it's more
of kind of a foundational
it's kinda more turned off,
turned on its side. So
rather than being a, you
know, dynamic data as, as
vertical pillar, it's more dynamic
data as, as foundational element.
That's something that's baked into
web forums and MVC is
that, does that sound right
to you? Yeah. Yeah. So
it's more that we're taking
ideas and principles from dynamic
data and not taking dynamic
data itself per se, but
we're taking a lot of
those ideas and putting them
into NVC. For example, one
of the things that we're
doing for client validation, that's
different from dynamic data is
that dynamic data will just
simply add a web form
validator controls. What we're doing
is we're floating up Jason
metadata based on your data
annotations. And then you can
attach a client validation library
to that, and you can,
you know, write your own
or use the one we
supply. And then that will
hook up client validation to
your form based on the
metadata that's on your OB,
your model, your view model
objects. And so this, this
is a, an approach that
was inspired by a framework
developed by someone out there
in the community, Steve Sanderson,
who built the XL framework.
And so we saw that
and we thought, Oh, that's
a really cool idea. You
know, maybe we can bake
that more deeply in, into
the framework based on some
of those principles and make,
but able to make the
framework more amenable to that
change than he could do
outside of the framework, if
that makes sense. So let's,
let's get into a little
detail on this and you
just, you made the comment
of a view model. You
put, you put this metadata
on the view model. I've
noticed that sometimes you'll see
samples, you know, the nerd
dinner sample as kind of
a good slash bad example
where the model and the
view model kind of either
are interchangeable or they mix,
or there just isn't a
view model at all. Is
this, this new technique? How,
how important is the view
model? How important is the
separation of the two? So,
yeah, so I'm pretty guilty
of often in demos, just
taking a model from the
database and then passing it
to the view and saying,
Hey, this is how you
do it. It turns out,
I think, as you start
to build real applications and
larger applications, you realize that
you really need a model
that's specific to the view.
For example, if you have
a product and you're put
sending it to some details
page, there may be other
things on that view that
you need to turn on
and off. So you might
have X, you might want
extra Boolean properties on your
model to say, show this
don't show that so that
your view is fairly dumb
and just does what the
model tells, just, you know,
kind of prints out properties
of the view model. So
there's a term that a
lot of people use view
model or view specific models.
What I often call it
is that rather than sending
the actual product, you know,
send, you know, basically create
an, a view model object
that has all the, you
know, maybe the properties that
you want specifically for this
view and send that to
the view sometimes for very,
very simple demos, I'll still
just send the actual model
and then throw some properties
in view data. And I
think, you know, like I'm
still not completely opposed to
that technique. I, I think
it works in like, you
know, simple scenarios, but I
think, you know, as your,
as you run into problems
with that, as you start
to scale up, you know,
you should switch to, you
know, a more, I think,
a more maintainable model. How
important do you think it
is? So I, you know,
unfortunately I don't get to
build really, really large apps,
but of all the people
I've talked to who are
building larger apps, they all
use this technique and, and
they find it very important
to, you know, especially as
strong typing is in the
views and important to you
now, you know, I I'm,
I'm particularly a fan of
dynamic languages. So for me,
I don't always see strong
typing as being absolutely necessary.
I sometimes see that, you
know, some mixture of the
two, you know, kind of
hits the sweet spot, but
more and more, I, I
like the approach because as
you're thinking, building the view
model, it does help you
think about, well, what are
the decisions that need to
be made on the view?
What are the pieces of
information that need to be
put on the view? And
then you have this one
class that encapsulates, you know,
what that is the way
I like to think about
it. A lot of times
is that a view is
kinda like one of those
throw cloth or something that
you stretch over the frame
of a chair to make
a chair. So, you know,
the frame being your view
model, and the view is
just something you stretch over
And the dynamic that the
metadata, and then the metadata,
this a, this isn't system
dot component model, though, right?
This, this info, this metadata,
I want to put on
my view model and this,
this can be put on
the model or on the
view model. It doesn't really
matter. All you want is
annotations on objects and you'll
handle the rest. Is that
correct? Correct. How much do
you think asp.net MVC kind
of requires or needs additional
help from the outside? Like
if, if one were going
to really get religious with
the view model versus model
stuff, wouldn't we require something
like auto mapper to make
life easier, auto mapper being
an open source app that
maps genome one object to
another object, or is that
overstating it, Yeah. You know,
it's funny, I was just
talking with a coworker about
this and that's one of
the things we're starting to
look at is what are
the pain points with doing
this approach versus other approaches?
And, you know, I think
the thing is like, you
know, as we see something
where we really feel it
belongs in the core framework,
you know, we'll probably pull
it in something like auto
mapper, you know, we haven't
yet looked at, but I
think, you know, as I'm
starting to think about ahead
of what we're going to
do for the, you know,
version three, that's the kind
of thing I want to
look at is, you know,
that seems to make things
a lot easier. So like,
should we have some way
of doing that? Should we
simply tell people to use
this? Should we include it?
And so those are some
of the questions, you know,
I'll be looking at in
the next version. I think
AutoMap is a great approach
to that, you know, for,
you know, the case where
a lot of times your
view models simply have our
super set of your model
in terms of what properties
are on there. And it
kinda sucks to have to
copy them all. So it's
nice to have some programmatic
way to do that, you
know, to populate your view
model. So an auto mapper
is a great way to
do that. Yeah. Yeah. The
auto mapper lets you get
rid of a lot of
the, what I call monkey
code. Yeah. Just sitting there
slapping the keyboard, you know,
and it just is no
fun left hand, right hand,
that kind of stuff. It's
a, and more and more,
I'm looking for ways in
my asp.net MVC projects to
avoid repeating myself. And that
seems that the view model
model thing just seems to
be one of those places
where I'm always repeating myself.
Yeah. So that's definitely a
case where we need to
get dryer as in a
dry as, and don't repeat
yourself, Not the tragedy about
the whole dry concept is
that every time you say
it on a podcast, you
have to repeat yourself and
then explain what drawing means.
The irony is not lost
on me. Challenge with dry
sometimes is that, you know,
you could just send the
model over there and not
repeat yourself, but then there's,
you know, slight, there's more
coupling of your view to
your actual domain objects that
rather than your view model.
So, you know, there's a
small amount of repetition there
in that you're repeating these
properties, but it's not always
the case that your domain
objects map exactly. To your
view. A lot of times,
you know, a classic example
of why we need view
models is the confirm password
screen, right? If I have
a person object and he
has a username and a
password, he probably doesn't have
a confirm password property on
that. Right. So there's a
classic case where you really
need a view model. You
need something that isn't one
of your domain objects in
order to fulfill this user
interface. Yeah. One of the
things I got nailed with,
and while I was actually,
I was in Sweden speaking
recently, I gave a talk
on NBC, one of your
lead devs there, Levi was
there, Levi Broderick. And he
noticed that I was using
a view model on the
way out, meaning I was
taking, getting some stuff back
from the model, passing it
into a view and displaying
a view model. But I
was taking a model on
the way in. And that,
that, that mismatch is, is,
is kind of a common
thing. He wanted me to
take the same object in
and out. And that got
me thinking too about the
kinds of trouble that you
can, you can get into.
Yeah. Yeah. That's a, that's
another area where if you're
using a expression based helpers.
So for example, one of
the things we're adding in
beta are a strongly typed
UI helpers. And so these
differ from template to helpers
where template is helpers are
basically, Hey, here's the, here's
the some object I want
you to render UI for
that where strongly type helpers
are more, here's the text
box, here's a text area
here, you know, I'm, I'm
gonna tell you what UI
elements to do, but I'm
going to give you an
expression against the model, right?
So I might say text
box for M such that
end dot first name. And
so it's gonna look at
the model and the metadata
and it's going to render
a text box and it's
going to render the right
fields for that, the field
name for that text box,
like, you know, first name
or, or a person offers
name or whatever it is,
right. When you submit that
back to your action method,
that needs to match up
with the thing that your
action method is receiving. Right?
Right. You built that expression
against an object. Most likely
that should be the same
object that you're receiving in,
right. Because if you're using
display four or, or more
interestingly, of course, editor for,
and you're saying, give me
an editor for a dinner.
It's one could argue that
that's a serialization format. It's
going to serialize that object
as an HTML form. And
it's going to expect to
get that same thing back,
You know, but there's the
other side of the question
where like your view model
is sort of the model
for the view. Isn't the
stuff that's incoming, really like
a forum post model or,
or, or, you know, action
argument model. Like isn't it
kind of a DTO object.
Yeah. That'd be a data
transfer object. And, and you
know, you could take that
approach and be strict about
that, but then you start
to really feel the effects
of repeating yourself a lot.
And one of the things
as well, maybe this where
if you're using a strongly
type language, maybe that's where
cogeneration comes in handy, right?
You just, you take a
model and then you generate
your incoming and outgoing or
something like that. The other
approach you could say is,
you know, like I have
a bunch of unit tests
and I'm okay with using
dynamic languages or something. So
I'm going to think about
what a dynamic language would
do. And you start doing
view page dynamic and you
create in your action method,
you new up and expand
to object. You set some
properties on that and then
you just send it to
the V page and on
the incoming. And I haven't
yet tried this, but I
haven't yet tried the case
where what happens if you
try to model bind to
a dynamic object going in,
I'm guessing it won't work,
but you know, maybe that's
something we look at for
the feature is making that
work. Right. So that you
could have a public action
results edit a dynamic of,
Oh, and then you in
your action method, you just
don't. Oh, dot first name
dot last name. Hey everybody.
This is Scott coming at
you from another place in
time. No doubt. You'll probably
bump into testing tasks now,
and then, and your work
and, you know, writing functional
tests is probably not your
favorite thing. It's kind of
difficult. It takes time and
the results can be dubious.
Well, I'll get ready to
start liking tests. Thanks to
Tellerik with the, the new
web testing framework. Building web
automation test is a breeze.
You've got code automation with
advanced asp.net Ajax and several
light applications. You can write
a single test, have it
executed against multiple browsers at
once. You'd benefit from a
rich API there's link support
integration with visual studio unit
testing, also in unit X
unit and MBE unit, not
to mention the free rappers
for Telerik rad controls for
ESPN and Ajax and several
lines, all shipping with Telerik's
new testing tool. One of
the best features, the webinar
testing framework, which is developed
by art of test is
it's absolutely free. Freddie got
hooked on web by testing
framework, start using it right
away, go to tellerik.com for
more info. Thanks a lot.
How do other frameworks do
it? I mean, I, you
know, some places like in
Nerdina we'll do a regular
model bind and a dinner
gets passed in and other
places we'll use a forum
collection. And the form collection
is kind of our, our
punting where it's like, you
know, I don't, it's not
really a model and I
don't really feel like making
a view model. So I'll
just do a form collection.
None of it really feels
awesome though. You know, it's,
it's just, it's never quite
as clean on the way
in, I personally like taking
these objects in via the
action method parameter, because I
find that it kind of
maps the way I think
about it. And it also
is a lot easier to
write unit tests for, you
know, I didn't know it,
but product passes my action
method and say, do the
right thing. But the, the
form collection approach, a lot
of times you do that
because it sort of almost
depending on what, what type
of data access are you
using? Some data access layers
require you to new up
the object and then make
the changes and then attach
them to the whatever context.
Whereas others can take an
existing populated object and attach
to the context as, as
a changed object. So like,
if you're thinking about the
update scenario, you kind of
need to know what the
old values are and the
new values are. And so
that's why there's sort of
that distinction for like a
create method. It's very easy
to just take in the
object as the action method
parameter, before an update method,
you might just take in
the form collection. Right. And
that's exactly the problem. I
caught myself, No other way,
the way that like other
frameworks do it, for example,
in rails, I believe you
would you get, you grab
everything from a prams collection.
So you have like prams,
you know, bracket, quote, first
name printed with bracket co
last name. But there's, I
believe there, you can just,
you know, create a dynamic
object from the prams collection
that maps to what you're
trying to create. So because
of, you know, the ability
to deduct type, Right. So
I haven't used it in
a long time, so I'm
not quite familiar. So it's
a very different world in
dynamic languages than it is
in like, Well, no, that
doesn't that mean that asp.net
MVC two or two plus
one could be something very
different if you insisted that
you'll only run on a
dotnet for, Yeah. So kid
on that too is going,
gonna run on three, five
and four eighth grade on
the NBC three is going
to take a Ford dependency.
You said asp.net too. So
asp.net, MVC Danette 3.5 SP
one in asp.net for asp.net
MVC, two, three is going
to take a seat on
it for dependency, which means
that for NBC three, we
can take advantage of everything
that doesn't, it four has
to offer. All right. All
right. That's what I wanted
to know. So let me
see if I understand this.
I want to kind of
paraphrase back as the, on
the user. So I've got
an asp.net one project now,
and I'm running it on
visual studio 2008, which has
done a three, five, I'm
going to want to upgrade
to MVC two, and I
will be able to do
that. And I'll continue to
use three, five if I
want to. I could also
move over to dotnet four
and 2010, but come the
NVC three timeframe. That's going
to be a dotnet four
O only thing. Yes. Okay.
Okay. So that means that
you're going to ship in
the box with visual studio
2010, or I can go
and download it and add
it to a visual studio
2008. Yes, yes. Good point.
Okay. But this is limited
you to the kind of
like crazy out there, dynamic
language stuff that you might've
been able to do because
you want to support both
platforms To some degree. Yes.
To some degree. No. Right.
So, you know, Scott Guthrie has
been doing some experimentations and
he's shown that, you know,
you can use view page,
the dynamic. If you're running
on asp.net for now the
framework itself, obviously it doesn't
do anything special to maybe
support more exotic scenarios like
that. But if you just
wrote a view page of
dynamic and you pass the
unexpanded object in your, as
your model, you'll be able
to access those within the
view, using the dot syntax,
you know, like food dot
model dot foods. Can you
explain that term expando object
to the listeners that may
not know what that means?
Oh, great. Yeah, sure. So
it's done that for introduces
this new object called expando
object. And if it's a
object that is a dynamic
object. So if I go
dynamic, you know, food equals
new expanded object, I can
start setting properties on it.
I can say food dot
the, you know, first name
equals fill food dot last
name equals hack. And then
I can return in an
NBC action. I could go
return view of food with
Fu as the argument that
the model argument. Now, in
my view page, if I
had a view page of
dynamic, and by that, I
mean the type argument of
the generic type argument of
the pages dynamic, then within
the view, I could go
model that first name or
less than percent equals model.
That first name, model, that
last name I won't get
IntelliSense because it's a dynamic,
it's a dynamic late bound
access to that object, but
I get the nicer, cleaner
syntax as if I was
the referencing properties. I don't
have to, it's nicer than
doing like view data, dictionary
of bracket, quote, first name
and, and what's happening is
that it's just accessing those
properties on the expando object
in a late bound fashion.
Okay. And this expando object,
that's living in system dot
dynamic, and that's part of
the DLR. So you literally
are saying dynamic Fu equals
new expando object. Yes. And
then I can just go
and say food dot this
and food out fat, and
it's going to automatically get
whatever properties I want. Yep.
So you're you're yeah. Under
the hood. I don't know
what exactly what is doing.
I'm guessing it's just adding
these things to some dictionary.
And then later when you
try to retrieve them, you
just say food dot title
and it will do a
look dynamic lookup and you
know, for, for what's the
value of title and it
will return that to you.
Well, yeah. I mean, they're
going to, they're adding it
know, like, this is the
thing about the dynamic keyword,
right? It's we joked about
this before. It's statically typed
as dynamic. They're dynamically adding
these members at, at runtime
and you can go deep
too. So you could say
something dot address dot state,
and it's going to, you
know, that address could be
an ex expando object. So
you can have expandos within
expandos, it's kinda like a
hash table, but, but it
feels like a dynamically generated
object. Cause it, cause it
is, If you, you can
do that to retrieve it,
but if you're creating it,
you'd have to go. You'd
have to use the, let's
say a dynamic. Oh, equals
new D expando Oh, dot
address equals new expando ODA
address, state equals anything. Right.
You have to, you have
to set that one level
deep first point and keep
going. Yeah. But then when
you get it on the
other side, you just say,
yeah. Oh dot state dot
Tai address or whatever it
is. Right. Right. Or address
stuff. We're not saying expando
object Fu equals new expando
object. Right. We're saying Fu
Right. Yeah. That's weird. Yeah.
It's, it's, it's a strange
hybrid of dynamic and static
in, in a single language.
Yeah. Well, it's probably not
weird to some people, I
mean, you know, there are
things like groovy that has
this stuff already groovy in
Java has had expando type
support for, for awhile and
No JavaScript, if you've done
any kind of JavaScript you're
used to expand those. Yeah.
Yeah. It's just such a,
it's just such a funny
name. I think that that's
something that a lot of
dotnet programmers are not really.
Yeah. It sounds like a
Marvel comics, a villain Expand.
Oh man. So you've added
the dynamic templating stuff to
ESPN NBC to what else
is new in NVC too,
that we should be watching
for? So one thing that's
going to be new in
a Bay in our beta
is render action. So this
is something that's been available
in our features library, our
sort of prototype library, but
now we're cleaning it up,
giving it a bath and
adding it as a core
feature of the framework. So
what that does is that
allows you from within the
view to point it at
some action method and, and
call that method and get
the result and put it
in the view at that
location. It's really for enabling
a component compositional UI, where
a classic case cases, I
have a menu. And since
each of my views doesn't
want to each of my
action method, doesn't want to
also set up the data
for the menu and easy
way to get the menu
in the view is simply
from the site dot master.
I'll just call render action
menu. There are other approaches
where you can set up
the data first, maybe through
action filters, but you know,
for a quick and dirty
way of, of, of getting
that there, you might call
render action. Other things we're
doing is I mentioned the
strongly touch, UI helpers, client
validation, and improvements. We've one
thing that a lot of
people will be happy about,
which is a very small
thing is that we're adding
a blank project template. So
right now with NBC eight
feet on NBC, if you
go file new AC ABC
project, you get a lot
of stuff in there. And
when you hit at five,
you get a full functional
site with membership and the
ability to register users. And
that's great for a lot
of people who just really
want to play around with
it and figure out how
it works and how you
can. Hey Scott. Hey Phil.
Hang on a second. Yep.
Yes, sir. Hey, I'm doing
a podcast right now with
Phil hack. Phil Scott Guthrie says
you're a, nobody. I know
you can hear him. We're
actually recording right now. Do
you need something, sir? Can
I call you back? Yeah,
that's fine. Whatever you need
me to do. Yeah, that
sounds great. I'll I'll call
you back in a few
minutes. Alright, bye. Yeah. Sorry.
I didn't mean to, to
like kick you to the
curb there, but I've got
a special ring. When, when
Scott calls, you know, what's
the joke I serve at
the pleasure of the goo
Stop everything. Yeah. Yeah, exactly.
Sorry. So you were saying
Phil. Yeah. What was I
talking about? But one thing
I wanted to ask though,
backing up a little bit
that the render action thing,
don't you think that, that
there'll be some purists? That'll
say that that's not a
good idea. Oh, definitely. In
fact, the team itself, you
know, there's half of us
who were kind of cringing
at it and there's half
of us who are saying,
you know, this, this is
one of the largest demanded
features and not everyone needs
to be pure a hundred
percent all the time, right?
Like sometimes you just need
a ma you know, you
just need to throw this
component on, on a master
page. And it's very hard
to do these composition in
another way, and it's still
possible to do it and
have a mostly clean design.
There's some drawbacks to it
though. For example, if you
are using our new, another
new feature of beta that
we're adding in beta is
the async controller. And so
the async controller allows you
within your action method, to
what they called an external
web service or other services,
and then return the thread
to the ThreadPool while, while
that weight's on, you know,
whatever I completion ports and
then, and not block the
thread. And then when the
lift service results come back,
you finish executing the action
method. So this is a
great, this is thing that
some of our bigger enterprise
customers are really keen on
because they're calling all kinds
of services and such, and
they don't want to be
blocking these threats. They really
need the throughput. The problem
there is that it, you
know, with render action, the
render action is not going
to take part in that
asynchronicity right. So once you
call your action method, you
returned the view. We're going
to make yet another action
call. If you call render
action in your view, and
that call is going to
be synchronous. Even if your
action method that you're calling
it asynchronous, I don't think
we put any blocks there.
So we'll actually allow you
to call render action on
an asynchronous action method. We'll
just call it synchronously. Yeah.
I mean, myself, I'm pretty
divided on this feature and
the way I rationalize it
is that if I'm doing
something about this, What I'm
saying, what I'm thinking though,
is that when we do
stuff like that, are people
going to think that we're
are the, either for lack
of a better word or
the digerati, you're going to
think that we're dumbing down
in VC by adding a
feature that smells like web
forms, I'd argue that it
doesn't smell, smell much like
web forms. It's just a
it's to me, it's the
way you can really easily
do component UI, not component
compositional UI. So this is
not a control, right? This
is not a post-bac model.
This is simply a way
of saying, you know, I
want this, the results of
this action method over here
to show up over there
in my view. Right? But
isn't the concern that it
gives the view, who is
asking for that action, knowledge
about things that really ought
not know about. So on
that point, I'd argue, well,
you're already giving that knowledge.
If you call action link
within your view, right? Because
you have to specify the
name of the action and
maybe the name of a
controller, if you're linking to
another action. And, and the
point I made, someone asked
me about this recently, and
the point I made to
them was so yes, we
are tying, we are giving
the view a bit of
knowledge about the controller and
action. However, we also have
enough layers of indirection so
that what you have in
your view is a string,
right? Well, in general, if
you call action link, you
have a string, that's a
controller name in a, in
a view name. Or if
you call render action, you
have the string, that's the
action name and through routing.
And through other means, you
could say, Oh, you know,
I want that to actually
point to some, either method.
You always have that ability.
It, we don't build it
in necessarily, but you always
have that ability to say,
to provide that level of
indirection. If the coupling of
that render action to the
controller action becomes a problem.
Now, I, you know, a
lot of people are using
render action already. I've had
people who I consider, you
know, very well, very knowledgeable
about NBC calling for it.
Like these Sanderson, you know,
told me he's happy that
we're adding that in. So
I think, I think overall,
it will be a good
thing. I think it like
any features, there'll be the,
there will be those who
will abuse it. And, but
then there will be those
who are glad that it's
there because they are responsible
about it. And they're glad
that we gave them the
choice to be responsible. Yeah.
Well, can you solve that?
I mean, if it solves
a specific scenario, then it
seems okay. If we started
leaning on it ourselves and
using it all the time,
then you know. Yeah, yeah.
I I'm sure I'll get
some hate mail for it
and I'll get some love
mail for it. So Yeah,
exactly. Yeah. All that talk
of separation of concerns then
kind of goes out the
window. I don't know about
that necessarily. Like I said,
the so separation of concerns
to me and, you know,
maybe people disagree. It doesn't
sort of have to do
with when code gets executed.
It has to do with
what knowledge code has of
each other. So in a
way we've already violated some
of that separation's concerned with
actually, right. The fact that
a view knows what action
and controllers are in order
to generate a link to
those things. Now, some frameworks,
you know, take it a
step further and they abstract
that away. I stress works
this way, where instead of
action links, you would actually
put like link and then
you'd put some string token
in there. And then you
have some XML config file
that says, Oh, this, you
know, where you hook up
a workflow, Oh, this token
links to this action, this
token links to that action,
this token links to that
action. You're free to do
that approach in the AC
on NBC. We haven't built
it in, but you're free
to do that approach. But
I think for the most
part that's, I think that's
one of the appeals of
like rails was that, you
know, we sort of streamlined
these things and said, we'll
sacrifice a tiny bit of
architectural priority in order to
enable people to get their
job done. Yeah. And that's
always the challenge. I mean,
with all things, I mean,
that's kind of a good
place to kind of wrap
it up, but you know,
there's a constant tension between
pragmatism and purity and there
are those purists that we'll
believe that we'll say that
you can get things done
and keep things pure. And
then there are those pragmatists,
that'll just say, you know,
get her done. That looks
pretty pure. Yeah. I will.
I will say I have
spent more time with, with
MVC staring at code and
saying, I'm so close to
keeping it, to making this
pretty, I've spent more time
thinking about my code's aesthetic
than I ever did with,
with web forms, which I
think is a Testament to
MVC just in the sense
that it gets me that
close. Yeah. Yeah. You know,
regarding the Pearson pragmatist argument,
right? Like sometimes I take
issue with the, the, get
her done philosophy sometimes because
often what happens there is
you, you won't even try
to approach or evaluate what
the, you know, being a
little more, if you want
to use the word pure
or, or thinking about maintenance
concerns and stuff, we'll get
you. Right. And whereas on
the flip side, if you're
on, on the strict parody
argument, sometimes you forget that
engineering is a series of
tradeoffs. And sometimes you do
need to make small targeted,
you know, compromises in order
to get things done quicker.
I used to take this
approach with database designs where
I always strove for a
full normalization first. And then
I would work back as
I ran into problems like
with perf and stuff and
did some targeted. Normalizations where,
you know, I would denormalize
from the normal life database.
So, you know, maybe that
would make sense to some
people who worked with SQL
or not. But I find
that a push to work
with pure, pure parody, right,
is that I try to
do the peer design first
when I'm writing an application.
And then I might work
my way back a little
bit to say, well, for
performance reasons, or to make
this work reasons I'm gonna
make these small compromises. And
so I feel like that's
the approach that, you know,
we're kind of taking here
sometimes is that we could
have done a a hundred.
We looked at the a
hundred percent pure thing. And
that's what, you know, we
didn't have render action in
version one, but now we're
seeing these pain points with
that. And we're saying, well,
maybe we need move back
a little bit and say,
okay, some people have expressed,
or many, many of our
customers have expressed a real
need for render action. We've
told them, you know, all
the concerns about the purity,
but they wanted anyways and
they promised they'll use it
responsibility responsibly. Right. So it's
like, well, okay, No, that's
cool. Well, it sounds like
NBC is getting ready for
a, for the enterprise push.
You want this to be
used, you know, everywhere now.
I mean, it's, it's ready
to go, right? I mean,
there's no reason anyone shouldn't
move to, to NBC to
right now, Not that I
can think of. So the
beta is going to have
a go live clause so
you can deploy it live,
you know, declare pre-vis to
had the absence of any
closet relating to go live
or don't ask don't tell
clause. Exactly. It was more
of a, well, we didn't
say you could, but we
didn't say you couldn't, but
a beta is going to
have is going to have
an explicit, you know, there's
no support in place yet,
but if you want to
go live, we feel that
we're comfortable with that was
funny that read the clause
today. And there is a
slight restriction on the go
live, not to be used
for mission critical systems at
nuclear plants or life, life
support systems or the type
of things that I don't
think you run with a
web app anyways. But I
thought that was kind of
amusing. It actually says nuclear
plant. It does. That is
awesome, dude, by the way,
don't take my word for
it. You know, consult a
lawyer, blah, blah, blah. But
yeah, reading yourself, but it
mentioned nuclear plants, life support
systems and some of the,
Does it say anything about
nerd dinners? No, luckily you're
okay. Alright cool. And I'm
gonna, I'm gonna, I'm going
to get that updated then,
actually now that I'm a
manager, I'll get John Galloway to
update nerdina.com and move it
over to NBC too. Awesome.
Very cool. Well, thanks a
lot, Phil. I really appreciate
your time today. Thank you.
Well, this has been another
episode of Hansel minutes and
I'll see you again next
week.